[Music]
get ready for 14 on ways of life the
ancient Egyptians practiced we often
think that we are completely different
from ancient people they had these weird
traditions they spoke unknown languages
and so on but archeology shows that we
aren't quite wrong what kind of
operations could the ancient Egyptians
perform what games did they play in this
video bright side will tell you about 14
unbelievable facts about the life of
ancient Egyptians including maybe how to
walk like one you know walk like an
Egyptian
most important inventions ever without a
way to record information there would be
no way to store and pass on knowledge to
the future generations
the Egyptians use pictograms which
simply depicted words later they added
characters that look a lot like modern
alphabets which help them to write down
some abstract ideas maybe like how to
build a pyramid number thirteen they
invented tables this might not sound
impressive but before the Egyptians
there were no tables as far as we know
so they made this simple piece of
furniture to keep the food off the
ground and also for gaming purposes this
is how board game started ooh
Egyptian Monopoly
you
and are bald however some people wanted
to have some kind of hair on their heads
but still be able to feel comfortable so
when they felt like it
they used wigs and when it was very hot
they simply took them off and here comes
the gross part the richest and noblest
people wore wigs made of actual human
hair
whereas common folks had wigs made of
sheep wool number 11 they extracted iron
from meteorites archaeologists found
metal beads in an ancient Egyptian tomb
in 1911 pretty small beads were found in
the north of Egypt but why were these
beads so unique the thing is the
Egyptians started to smelt iron only
2,000 years later so how did they get
metal beads chemical tests showed that
they were made from meteorites and
another argument for this point of view
is the hieroglyph that the Egyptians had
which means iron and can be translated
as metal from the sky oh that's pretty
chilling number 10 they invented
toothpaste
there are several proofs that the
Egyptians have been producing toothpaste
since 5000 BC as it turns out they
needed toothpaste not only for romantic
dates the Egyptians probably had very
serious trouble with their teeth because
they ate food with a lot of sand in it
and of course this way their enamel so
they needed something to keep their
teeth clean and healthy so they invented
one of the first versions of toothpaste
it consisted of ashes burn eggshells and
ox fluffs just the kind of stuff you
want to put in your mouth right this
doesn't seem like a good start of a day
anyway archaeologists even managed to
find some guides on how to mix these
ingredients to make the right paste is
there a wrong way to make this another
fascinating dental discovery where
toothpicks that were buried together
with mummies probably the ancient
Egyptians cared about their teeth so
much that they even took some tools with
them to the afterlife number nine
they used breath mints as you already
know the Egyptians cared about their
mouths very much in the ancient times
bad breath was as unpleasant as it is
today even though their medicine was
quite advanced they didn't have any
dentist who could help them with their
bad teeth scientists examined mummies
and found several worn-out teeth even in
young people so to do something about
the unpleasant smells from the mouth
they invented the first mints
they used myrrh and cinnamon they boil
them with honey and made some kind of
pellets YUM number eight
they used antibiotics in treatment yes
the Egyptians kind of invented
antibiotics way before the 20th century
but it looks like they didn't know it
they used moldy flatbread to cure
festering wounds they fermented
something that looked like porridge that
had very high levels of tetracycline
which we know as an antibiotic however
there is no indication that the
Egyptians understood why this recipe
work so is it really a discovery when
you don't know what you discovered tell
us in the comments number seven they
invented eye makeup
you've probably seen some movies about
ancient Egypt both men and women in
Egypt wore makeup and it was a symbol of
nobility the more makeup you had the
higher your social status was most of
the time they had black eye makeup but
they were also able to create green eye
makeup using malachite number six they
formed the world's first police the
world's first police were formed during
the Middle Kingdom period years 2050 to
1800 BC it included the most loyal
warriors and foreign mercenaries the
Egyptian police didn't have guns or cool
badges but they were armed with staffs
and accompanied by dogs and trained
monkeys alright fella you're under
arrest
Fido put the cuffs on him whoa cheetah
read him his rights yeah it was exactly
like that too apart from the usual
duties that police officers have today
the ancient Egyptian police had to
protect tax collectors police officers
forced the citizens to pay their taxes
on time they even had detectives who
investigated the most popular kind of
robbery of those times
toom robbery number five they invented
the calendar we use the calendar to
remember about important things
birthdays appointments new iPhone launch
day and so on
however the Egyptians could literally
die without a way to tell when the Nile
would flood if they miss that day all
the harvest was at risk so the Egyptians
designed a system to be able to know
which season it was they had three
seasons in a year inundation growing and
harvest each season consisted of four
months and each month had 30 days if you
do the math you will see that the
Egyptian year was just five days shy of
our modern year five days may not seem a
lot but it actually is overtime this
difference will add up and the seasons
would shift so much that they would be
opposite that's why the Egyptians added
five extra days between the harvest and
inundation seasons these days served as
religious holidays so that people could
rest before the start of the new year
number four they were the first to
produce beer you might have heard that
the workers who built the pyramids were
paid with four to five litres of beer a
day how could you possibly drink that
much beer and get up in the next morning
to work I think we should try it
we're not sure what sure the Egyptians
use for a hangover but we can definitely
conclude that Brewing was at an
excellent level the Egyptians were one
of the first to produce the drink number
three they used door locks door locks
were created in Egypt and China probably
because such devices were needed the
more neighbors you have the more reasons
to lock your door the mechanisms of the
lock were quite simple there were
special pins inside that didn't let
anyone open the door without the key
when the owner inserted the key it moved
the pins and the person could enter the
house so now every time you lock the
door and feel safe for your possessions
you know who you should be grateful to
number two they play bowling in one
ancient settlement near Cairo
archaeologists found a playroom going
back to 3200 BC with carved lanes and
balls of
various sizes four fingers a little bit
different from the modern Bullock we're
used to players stood on both sides of
the lane and didn't aim to strike down
the pins the point was to throw the ball
so that goes exactly through the hole in
the middle the competitors were trying
to do the same but from the opposite end
a combine the bowling with the beer and
now you got a new Friday night tradition
and number one they treated eyes eye
infection was a common disease among
Egyptians they use various and sometimes
extraordinary methods of treatment they
use bacterial Saito paint and remedies
made of human brains here is what one of
the recipes look like divided a human
brain into two parts mix the first half
with honey and apply on the eye in the
evening dry the second half and apply in
the morning we don't know two things
from where they took the brains
hopefully they didn't murder anyone
especially for that and we have no idea
if it helped so which of the facts did
you know before this video and which
surprised you the most tell us in the
comment section below like this video
and send it to your friends let them
learn something new and of course click
the subscribe button to join us on the
bright side of life
[Music]